README.md, before:

<p align="center">
<img src="logo.png">
</p>


babylon iOS recruitment process
==================================

At babylon, we firmly believe that **transparency** is a core value that should be present in everything we do, and hiring the best person should reflect that belief. That's why we in the iOS team have open-sourced our recruitment process, for a fairer assessment process in which candidates know exactly what to expect, all the way to the [questions we may ask during a face-to-face interview](https://github.com/Babylonpartners/iOS-Interview-Demo/blob/master/questions.md).

We also aim to be as flexible as possible by equally accepting applications from candidates who want to work on-site at our office in London, or who want to work remotely, or who have a limited amount of time to write a demo project, or who have open-source contributions.

### Our expectations

babylon aims to hire only the most qualified people available at any given time. That doesn't mean that a candidate must have several academic degrees or have years and years of experience. We value **potential** equally as much as **knowledge** and **experience**. Above all, we value one's ability to **think independently** and to **engage**. As effective as they may be, we don't want robots.

Additionally, we want to hire people who are **reasonable**, **professional**, and **fun** to work with. After all, they are people we will spend a great deal of time interacting with on a daily basis.

As such, these are the main areas the iOS team will focus our assessment of candidates on:

- Technical expertise
 - Languages (Swift, Objective-C) and platforms (iOS, watchOS, tvOS, macOS)
 - Architectural design patterns (MVC, MVVM, Viper, etc)
 - Knowledge of iOS APIs
 - Knowledge of the development cycle
 - Knowledge of reactive programming
 - Interview demo project
- Interest in sharing one's knowledge
- Interest in learning new knowledge
- Interest in keeping oneself up to date
- Ability to think and work independently
- Ability to work in a large team
- Professional and personal maturity
- Overall attitude
- Likelihood of fitting in well with the company's culture
- Is the candidate someone we would like to work with on a daily basis?

### The iOS recruitment process

Our recruitment process is different for candidates who are interested in working remotely and those who are interested in working on-site at our office in London, in **three** ways:
- remote candidates are **required** to be proficient in **reactive programming** (`ReactiveSwift`/`ReactiveCocoa` or `RxSwift`) at an above-average level
- remote candidates are **required** to use **reactive programming** in their interview demo projects
- technical interview sessions differ in number and duration:
    * **on-site**: initial call -> demo -> 3-hour face-to-face technical interview
    * **remote**: initial call -> demo -> one or more Skype interviews -> 1 working day with us (at our expense)

As indicated above, we expect all candidates to submit an ["interview demo project"](https://github.com/Babylonpartners/iOS-Interview-Demo/blob/master/demo.md) but, in order to be accommodating of different schedules, we provide three different ways in which a candidate can submit a demo of their work. **Only one of these is required**.

1. The babylon demo project
2. A project you've already done
3. An open source project you've done or contributed to

A demo project should be an example of one's **best** work. We don't just want to see a technically good project; we want to be *wowed* by a candidate's technical skills and creativity. If we then think the demo project is interesting enough, we'll proceed to a face-to-face step, either on Skype (for remote candidates) or in person (for on-site candidates).

That face-to-face step, which normally lasts 90 minutes per session (there may be more than one), typically starts with a discussion around the candidate's project. We normally ask the candidate to implement a new feature (even if it's just using pseudo-code), or to refactor and unit-test a particular component, and in general we aim to have an informal discussion about the candidate's approach.

We may also focus on more technical aspects and ask a number of highly technical questions. As indicated earlier, we have open-sourced these questions as well since we believe that a fully open recruitment process gives all candidates a fairer chance to prepare themselves, and makes our assessment uniform across all candidates.

Above all, be yourself and thank you for taking the time to apply to babylon health! 🌈

Oh, and if you happen to know someone who might be interested in applying for a position with us, please point them to our [careers page](https://www.babylonhealth.com/careers).

#### We look forward to hearing from you!
- The [babylon health iOS team](http://github.com/Babylonpartners)

Commit message:

Added emphasis to the fact that we have no submission deadline. (#11)

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
<img src="logo.png">
</p>


babylon iOS recruitment process
==================================

At babylon, we firmly believe that **transparency** is a core value that should be present in everything we do, and hiring the best person should reflect that belief. That's why we in the iOS team have open-sourced our recruitment process, for a fairer assessment process in which candidates know exactly what to expect, all the way to the [questions we may ask during a face-to-face interview](https://github.com/Babylonpartners/iOS-Interview-Demo/blob/master/questions.md).

We also aim to be as flexible as possible by equally accepting applications from candidates who want to work on-site at our office in London, or who want to work remotely, or who have a limited amount of time to write a demo project, or who have open-source contributions.

### Our expectations

babylon aims to hire only the most qualified people available at any given time. That doesn't mean that a candidate must have several academic degrees or have years and years of experience. We value **potential** equally as much as **knowledge** and **experience**. Above all, we value one's ability to **think independently** and to **engage**. As effective as they may be, we don't want robots.

Additionally, we want to hire people who are **reasonable**, **professional**, and **fun** to work with. After all, they are people we will spend a great deal of time interacting with on a daily basis.

As such, these are the main areas the iOS team will focus our assessment of candidates on:

- Technical expertise
 - Languages (Swift, Objective-C) and platforms (iOS, watchOS, tvOS, macOS)
 - Architectural design patterns (MVC, MVVM, Viper, etc)
 - Knowledge of iOS APIs
 - Knowledge of the development cycle
 - Knowledge of reactive programming
 - Interview demo project
- Interest in sharing one's knowledge
- Interest in learning new knowledge
- Interest in keeping oneself up to date
- Ability to think and work independently
- Ability to work in a large team
- Professional and personal maturity
- Overall attitude
- Likelihood of fitting in well with the company's culture
- Is the candidate someone we would like to work with on a daily basis?

### The iOS recruitment process

Our recruitment process is different for candidates who are interested in working remotely and those who are interested in working on-site at our office in London, in **three** ways:
- remote candidates are **required** to be proficient in **reactive programming** (`ReactiveSwift`/`ReactiveCocoa` or `RxSwift`) at an above-average level
- remote candidates are **required** to use **reactive programming** in their interview demo projects
- technical interview sessions differ in number and duration:
    * **on-site**: initial call -> demo -> 3-hour face-to-face technical interview
    * **remote**: initial call -> demo -> one or more Skype interviews -> 1 working day with us (at our expense)

As indicated above, we expect all candidates to submit an ["interview demo project"](https://github.com/Babylonpartners/iOS-Interview-Demo/blob/master/demo.md) but, in order to be accommodating of different schedules, we provide three different ways in which a candidate can submit a demo of their work. **Only one of these is required**.

1. The babylon demo project
2. A project you've already done
3. An open source project you've done or contributed to

A demo project should be an example of one's **best** work. We don't just want to see a technically good project; we want to be *wowed* by a candidate's technical skills and creativity. Note that we don't have a submission deadline so take your time to polish your demo project.

If we then think the demo project is interesting enough, we'll proceed to a face-to-face step, either on Skype (for remote candidates) or in person (for on-site candidates).

That face-to-face step, which normally lasts 90 minutes per session (there may be more than one), typically starts with a discussion around the candidate's project. We normally ask the candidate to implement a new feature (even if it's just using pseudo-code), or to refactor and unit-test a particular component, and in general we aim to have an informal discussion about the candidate's approach.

We may also focus on more technical aspects and ask a number of highly technical questions. As indicated earlier, we have open-sourced these questions as well since we believe that a fully open recruitment process gives all candidates a fairer chance to prepare themselves, and makes our assessment uniform across all candidates.

Above all, be yourself and thank you for taking the time to apply to babylon health! 🌈

Oh, and if you happen to know someone who might be interested in applying for a position with us, please point them to our [careers page](https://www.babylonhealth.com/careers).

#### We look forward to hearing from you!
- The [babylon health iOS team](http://github.com/Babylonpartners)
